            ***   Automated Coastal Engineering System (ACES)   ***
                                  Version 1.07d
                                   October 1993





                 US Army Engineer Waterways Experiment Station
                      Coastal Engineering Research Center
                      Automated Coastal Engineering Group







                              ***  DISCLAIMER  ***

          The findings in this report are not to be construed as an
          official Department of the Army position unless so
          designated by other authorized documents.



The computer program and supporting technical data provided by the US Army
Corps of Engineers in this package are received and accepted by the user with
the express understanding that the Government makes no warranties, expressed or
implied, regarding functionality, accuracy, or utility of the package or of the
information generated by the package.  THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF
MERCHANTABILITY AND OF FITNESS OR SUITABILITY FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE ARE
SPECIFICALLY DISCLAIMED.  The Government also makes no representations that
this package will meet the user's needs or requirements, will properly operate
in the systems selected by the user, or will be uninterrupted or error free in
the user's applications.  Accordingly, it is recommended that each person or
entity using or relying on this package undertake an independent assessment and
thorough evaluation of his own requirements and needs before proceeding.

Further, this package is provided and accepted "as is" by the user with all
accompanying faults and defects.  Any person or entity that relies upon
information generated or obtained by this package does so at his own risk.  The
Government does not and cannot warrant the performance or results of this
package under any and all circumstances.  Therefore, no representations or
claims are made about the completeness, accuracy, reliability, usability, or
suitability of this package for any particular purpose or of any results
derived by the use of this package.

Finally, the Government also disclaims all liability to users and third parties
for damages including, but not limited to, direct, indirect, incidental,
special, consequential, or any other damages whatsoever arising from, or in
connection with, the use and results of this package.  These disclaimers extend
to any and all advice, interpretations, or other information given by
Government personnel about the use or modification of the package.

Any references to products, tradenames, or trademarks herein are made for the
purpose of illustration or clarification and do not constitute an official
endorsement or approval of such items by the Government.

This program is the work of the United States Government and is in the public
domain. It is approved for public release with unlimited distribution.  It is
improper and against Army policy to assist or encourage any advertisement,
commercial product, or promotional activity which might imply Army endorsement
for private benefit.  Permission to use the Corps' name, materials, and
activities can be obtained only under Army Regulation 360-5, dated 31 May 1989.











                         ***  CONTENTS OF PACKAGE  ***

     The ACES package contains the following items:

               One High Density (1.2Mb) Diskette

               A User's Guide

               A Technical Reference Manual









                            ***  FILES ON DISK  ***

     Files contained on the ACES diskette are as follows:

          Filename         Description

          --------         -----------

          ACES.ARC         Archived file containing ACES software and a program
                           to install the graphics software

          EXAMPLE.ARC      Archived file containing example files

          PKXARC.EXE       Utility program which extracts or dearchives the
                           compressed files from the archives

          README           This file





                        ***  HARDWARE REQUIREMENTS  ***

     ACES is designed to run on IBM PC-AT (or compatible) machines having
     the following configuration:

               640 Kb memory
               80287 math co-processor.

     The screen displays in ACES are designed in color.  A color adaptor
     and monitor (VGA, EGA, PGA, or CGA) are preferable.  Some monochrome
     display adaptors and monitors will also work.  A printer is
     preferable, but not required.  A high density floppy diskette reader
     is required to read the ACES diskette.











                          ***  DOS CONSIDERATIONS  ***

     The ACES software requires approximately 450 Kb of memory.  If you
     run a memory resident program on your computer you may not be able to
     run ACES until the memory used by the program is released and
     returned to DOS.  Refer to the documentation of the memory resident
     program to find out how to release it from memory.

     For ACES to run properly, the configuration file CONFIG.SYS must
     contain the following two statements:

                                    FILES=n

                                   BUFFERS=n

     where n is greater or equal to 20.  If n is less than 20, edit the
     CONFIG.SYS file and reboot DOS.





                             ***  INSTALLATION  ***

To install ACES on a hard disk requires creating a directory where ACES will
reside, dearchiving the files on the ACES diskette to that directory, and
running an INSTALL program to configure the ACES graphics capability.  These
steps are briefly outlined below (detailed instructions can be found in
Appendix B of the User's Guide).

   1.   Use the DOS MD or MKDIR command to create a subdirectory where ACES
   files will reside.  The example below assumes that the subdirectory is
   called ACES7 and is a subdirectory of the root directory on the C: drive.
             CD C:\ (go to the root directory)
             MD C:\ACES7B     (create a new directory called ACES7B)
             CD \ACES7B    (move into the new directory)

   2.   Insert the ACES disk in Drive A and type:
             A:PKXARC  A:*.ARC
        ACES will now be installed in subdirectory ACES7B.

   3.   Install the ACES graphics capability by typing:
             INSTALL
        Answer the questions as they pertain to your computer system.

                          ***  ADDITIONAL COPIES  ***

     Additional copies of this package may be obtained by forwarding a
     request in writing to:

               US Army Engineer Waterways Experiment Station
               ATTN:  CEWES-CR
               3909 Halls Ferry Road
               Vicksburg, MS 39180-6199



                         ***  IF YOU HAVE PROBLEMS  ***

     Comments, suggestions or questions regarding the ACES program should
     be directed to:


                      Mr. David Leenknecht  (601-634-3552)
                       Ms. Ann Sherlock  (601-634-2074)




                             ***  WHAT'S NEW?  ***

     Three applications have been added to ACES since version 1.06.





                            *** WHAT'S DIFFERENT ***

     Version 1.07d contains the following changes:
        1) Minor code modifications to Irregular Wave Transformation (Goda's
           Method).
        2) Rubble Mound Revetment Design gives three additional data values:
           a. Surf Parameter,  b. CERC Stability Number,  c. Dutch Stability
              Number.

     The Technical Reference is not effected by the changes.  The User's
     Guide does not reflect the three additional data output values for
     Rubble Mound Revetment Design.



     Major changes in version 1.07 include:


     A new application, "Fourier Series Wave Theory" has been added
     to the package.  This application yields various parameters
     for progressive waves of permanent form, as predicted by Fourier
     series approximation.  It provides estimates for common engineering
     parameters such as water surface elevation, integral wave properties,
     and kinematics as functions of wave height, period, water depth, and
     position in the wave form which is assumed to exist on a uniform
     co-flowing current.  Stokes first and second approximations for
     celerity (i.e., values of the mean Eulerian current or mean mass
     transport rate) may be specified.  Fourier series of up to 25 terms
     may be selected to approximate the wave.  In addition to providing
     kinematics at a given point in the wave, this application provides
     graphical presentations of kinematics over two wavelengths (at a
     given z coordinate), and the vertical profile of selected kinematics
     under the wave crest.




     The "Longshore Sediment Transport" application now has the ability to
     use a Wave Information Study (WIS) hindcast data file created by the
     Coastal Engineering Data Retrieval System (CEDRS).  The CEDRS
     (available only to Corps of Engineers offices) is an interactive
     microcomputer resident database system, distinct and separate from
     ACES, which provides both hindcast and measured wind and wave data
     for use in the field of coastal engineering.  The general goal of
     CEDRS is to assemble, archive, and make available regional databases
     containing data applicable to requirements of individual coastal
     Districts of the Corps of Engineers.  The CEDRS databases contain
     both measured data from several sources and computer model generated
     hindcast data.  The CEDRS system resides completely on an auxiliary
     hard disk furnished for each regional database.  The CEDRS data file
     that is used by this ACES application provides percent occurrence
     tables of waves in height and period ranges for specified direction
     bands at numerous stations on all US coasts.  Values in the tables
     represent the percentage of a 20- or 32-year period during which
     waves occur from specified azimuth ranges for the indicated height
     and period ranges (see the Wave information Studies reports in the
     "References and Bibliography" of the "Longshore Sediment Transport"
     application for more information).  For more information regarding
     the CEDRS, forward inquiries to:

               Coastal Engineering Research Center
               US Army Engineer Waterways Experiment Station
               ATTN: CEWES-CR-O
               3909 Halls Ferry Road
               Vicksburg, MS 39180-6199





     The "Numerical Simulation of Time-Dependent Beach and Dune Erosion"
     application offers another mechanism for defining an actual beach
     profile.  It can now read beach profile data from an ISRP
     (Interactive Survey Reduction Program) file.  An ISRP file contains
     profile data (distance offshore and elevation) which is ready for
     analysis.   A description of ISRP can be found in Instruction Report
     CERC-84-1, "A User's Guide to ISRP: The Interactive Survey Reduction
     Program" by William Birkemeier, US Army Waterways Experiment Station,
     Vicksburg, MS.




     The "Calculation of Composite Grain-Size Distribution" application
     now includes ASTM mesh size for recording particle diameter units and
     will handle samples having evenly distributed as well as irregular
     sand distributions.  In addition, this application writes the
     computed composite data to plot output file #2; allows user to plot
     individual samples and composites; and provides a probability weight
     percent plot.



     In addition, errors discovered by users in the ACES program and
     documentation have been corrected.



     Version 1.07a contains minor code corrections to three applications:
     1) Wind Adjustment and Wave Growth
     2) Linear Wave Theory/Snell's Law
     3) A Spatially Integrated Numerical Model for Inlet Hydraulics


     Version 1.07b contains minor code modifications to Wind Adjustment and
     Wave Growth. It is our hope that these changes eliminate ambiguity
     associated with parameters describing the geometry of the subject basin.


     Version 1.07c contains minor code modifications to A Spatially Integrated
     Numerical Model for Inlet Hydraulics.
